[[remotes]]
= Remote repositories

[[remotes_definition]]
== What are remotes?

((Repository))

LARSSECONDARY"remote"LARSSECONDARY _Remotes_ are URLs in a Git
repository to other remote repositories that are hosted on the Internet,
locally or on the network.

Such remotes can be used to synchronize the changes of several Git
repositories. A local Git repository can be connected to multiple remote
repositories and you can synchronize your local repository with them via
Git operations.

[NOTE]
====
Think of _remotes_ as shorter bookmarks for repositories. You can always
connect to a remote repository if you know its URL and if you have
access to it. Without _remotes_ the user would have to type the URL for
each and every command which communicates with another repository.
====

It is possible that users connect their individual repositories
directly, but a typically Git workflow involves one or more remote
repositories which are used to synchronize the individual repository.
Typically the remote repository which is used for synchronization is
located on a server which is always available.

image::img/git_remoterepo10.png[Remote Git repositories] 
 >
*Tip* > > A remote repository can also be hosted in the local file
system.

[[bareremotes_definition]]
== Bare repositories

((Repository))

LARSSECONDARY"bare"LARSSECONDARY
((Repository))
 LARSSECONDARY"create bare
repository"LARSSECONDARY A remote repository on a server typically does
not require a _working tree_ . A Git repository without a _working tree_
is called a _bare repository_ . You can create such a repository with
the `--bare` option. The command to create a new empty bare remote
repository is displayed below.

[source,terminal] ---- include::./examples/create/gitinitbare.txt[] ----
By convention the name of a bare repository should end with the `.git`
extension.

To create a bare Git repository in the Internet you would, for example,
connect to your server via the SSH protocol or you use some Git hosting
platform, e.g., GitHub.com.

[[bareremotes_convert]]
== Convert a Git repository to a bare repository

Converting a normal Git repository to a bare repository is not directly
support by Git.

You can convert it manually by moving the content of the `.git` folder
into the root of the repository and by removing all others files from
the working tree. Afterwards you need to update the Git repository
configuration with the `git config core.bare true` command.

As this is officially not supported, you should prefer cloning a
repository with the `--bare` option.
